all three of the editors shared a lot of very surface level similarities with the UI and general High Level Workflow. that said, it became pretty clear that unreal is the odd ball out here as it was the only one that enforced an object oriented workflow with the whole actors system and whatnot. unity and godot were both very similar in the way that inheritence and hierarchy could be easily manipulated in the inspector without having to make new prefabs or classes. that said, there were still some core differences, mainly in the way unity prefered to enforce structure with prefabs and separation of levels and object types. godot, by comparison, was extremely flexible in the way that every object and actor type is just a scene that can be instanced in any number of other scenes. it feels like it can be more confusing to work in, but the sheer flexibility alone was extremely cool to see.

with regards to prefabs, packed scenes, and actors, they all felt the same in that they served the same core functionality. they allow you to group modles, objects, and scripts together and easily reuse them anywhere in your game. that said, their approaches all had different approaches that mainly affected their flexibility. unreal felt more like a large programming project with the way everything was grouped into classes that had to have code custom written for them, and had to be overwritten everytime you wanted to make a variant with any kind of differences. unity more or less treated them as just groups of objects with specific scripts attached, which is a very flexible way of doing things (on top of being an easier mental model). that said, godot still definitely took the cake here with scenes being groups of literally anything. you could load one into a level, or you could load one as a level. it was really refreshing to see.

if i had to build a basic level again, i would probably choose godot given the overall flexibility and openess of the engine. that said, given my previous experiences in both unity and unreal, i would probably choose unreal for anything that required a moderate level of complexity or more, purely for the fact that it has all the necessary tools for it built in.